[MUSIC]
My name is Omad, I'm a corporate
operations engineer at Google.
All I do is solve problems.
Googlers have problems, they need somebody
to talk to, they usually talk to us.
If you asked me at 18 years
old where I'd be now,
I would have never told you I'd be
working as a security engineer.
I would have told you I'd be working
in a prison or I'd be working
as a police officer in some township and
just working a regular 9 to 5 shift.
After high school,
I went on to work at Trenton State Prison,
which is the only maximum
security prison in New Jersey.
It was very stressful, but at the same
time it's what I wanted to do at the time,
or at least, that's what I thought
I wanted to do at that time.
Five years after becoming
a correction officer,
I took the test again to
be a sheriff's officer.
And on the last day of that academy,
I decided this wasn't for me.
I was tired of being on my face doing
pushups, I was tired of being yelled at.
I went home and I did what everybody
else would do, do a Google search.
And I saw one for Google and
it was a residency program,
it was at the top of the list and
I applied to it as a joke.
I even told my friends at the time,
I'm just going to apply this,
I'm not going to get in.
I had no reference, no connections,
I knew nobody that worked at Google.
And within a couple of days a recruiter
reached out to me, she said,
"I think you're a great fit,
you're a career changer.
I like your application, I like your
resume, I think you'd be a great fit."
All the interviewers liked my background,
they liked that I was self taught.
A lot of interviewers were
able to relate to me.
They said, "Hey, I did the same thing."
From there, I was offered the job and
I started my career.
When I was in orientation,
somebody right next to me was actually
the valedictorian of Princeton.
Here I am with no college degree,
no exposure, no work experience, and
I'm in the same company.
For career changers,
what you have that other people
don't have is a different mindset.
You're coming from experience outside of
the technical space that you can transfer
into the technical space.
Don't forget that we all have skillsets
that can help you in the field.
That's what employers are looking for,
that's what hiring
managers are looking for.
One thing I learned as a correction
officer is how to assess risk.
Every situation is different, just
like the security space. Every risk is
different. Every vulnerability is
different. Every threat is different.
You can teach somebody tech, but
you can't teach them a life
of skills outside of tech.
If I were to go back and tell my 18 year
old self one piece of advice, it would be,
don't be scared, do it.
A career in cybersecurity is very fun.
It's very interesting.
It will work your brain.
It changed my life,
it'll change yours as well.